{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf290
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww28300\viewh15520\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f0\fs26 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
First the authors would like to sincerely thank the reviewers for their helpful comments. The misspellings and typographical errors have been corrected.\'a0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\
\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
We would like to recall that the objective of our work is to model the deformation of anatomical thin structures. To achieve this goal,\'a0our\'a0paper has 3 main contributions:\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
(1) The use of a co-rotational\'a0finite element shell\'a0to model the deformation of thin structures, (2) A new\'a0reconstruction technique well suited for shell modelling, (3) The coupling of the\'a0shell FEM with solid element formulations.\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The central idea is to rely on the same shape functions for the geometrical reconstruction, the physical deformation and the coupling processes.\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\
\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
In order to answer to the reviewers in the best way we can, we asked to the program chairs of MICCAI\'a0the authorisation to reveal our identity and they granted it.\'a0This paper is\'a0an extension\'a0of a previous work published by the same authors at\'a0
\f1\fs28 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
T
\fs26 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
he International Symposium on Biomedical Simulation\'a0(ISBMS)\'a02010.\'a0
\f0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The missing reference cited by reviewer 2 (Comas et al, "A shell Model for Real-Time Simulation of Intra-ocular Implant Deployment", ISBMS 2010) is the anonymous reference [7].\'a0In our ISBMS paper, we presented the co-rotational shell formulation and applied it to an intra-ocular implant used in cataract surgery. We did not model any anatomical structure, the geometry of the implant model was created manually and the meshing into shell elements was not fully automatic. We also did not consider any type of coupling with other models.\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\
\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
In order to model\'a0thin anatomical structures, it is\'a0mandatory to develop\'a0a suitable reconstruction technique adapted to shell elements. By using high order shape functions we are able to describe highly curved geometries with few elements and good geometrical accuracy (measured using the Hausdorff distance). By controlling the number of shell elements, we can achieve real-time computation of the deformation. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first time that thin anatomical structures modelling with shells is reported in real-time in medical simulation.\'a0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\
\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Beside modelling anatomical structures, another contribution is about the coupling between shell and volume models, illustrated by the example on the angioplasty procedure. The simulation of Glisson's capsule is another good example. Regarding the comment on the coupling between shells and tetrahedra, it would be possible to share the nodes only if the tetrahedral formulation was relying on high order shape functions. As we currently use linear shape functions, smaller elements are needed to capture the deformations, and therefore we have to rely on a more complex mapping between the shell and tetrahedral mesh.\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0  \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Since we use a proximity queries algorithm, we do not measure\'a0a penetration depth. Instead we compute local minimal distances between the surface mesh and any other mesh.\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\
\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
In summary, our reconstruction technique allows us to build coarse shell element meshes from CT or MRI with accuracy for various thin anatomical structures. From there, we are able to compute their deformation in real-time using our co-rotational triangular finite element method. At last we show the pertinence of our approach through complex examples where contacts and interactions with solid organs are handled.}